If it's true what they say...
.. that you have the power
of life and death...
.. I need your help.
Ginnie!
I didn't think that you'd come.
Well, if I can help Freddie and
sort things out between us...
You can't still be angry with me?
~ I don't have eyes in the back of my head...
~ I trusted you.
And now he's sick.
What if he doesn't get
better? If he can't walk?
God forbid, what if he d...
Do you really think I'll
be able to forgive you?
We'd better both pray the Standing
Stones live up to the myth.
It's getting powerful round here now.
And the closer it gets to Midsummer
Night, the stronger they are.
I can feel it. Can you?
Let's just get on with it.
Did you bring the blood?
No, I couldn't cut
him. You can use mine.
I don't know if it'll
work with yours.
And I haven't got a knife.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Do you know the words?
Give me your hand.
Look,
I should have said
this before, but...
You're right.
It WAS my fault.
I'm sorry.
I'd do anything to
turn back the clock.
~ I think you should go.
~ No, Ginnie, I...
~ I've changed my mind. Just go!
~ I want you to forgive me.
~ GO!
FINE! Be like that.
If Freddie does die,
don't come crying to me.
It's not my fault your
son can't do as he's told.
Huh!
Sylvia Swann, 23, barmaid.
Any ideas what lock this belongs to?
We're about to try
her lodgings now, Sir.
Any family?
She turned up about a year ago.
Got some work in the pub.
This can't be anyone
from Standing, Sir.
We stick together here. Specially
in times like these.
What about the woman
who discovered her?
Ginnie Godden?
~ Why didn't she come to you first?
~ Well, she was in shock.
She ran up to the
road, and collapsed.
Lucky someone saw her -
she might've been next.
Any connection to the deceased?
They worked together behind
the bar. Best friends.
Ginnie says she met Sylvia
here, they'd separated,
then she heard a scream.
A bit odd, isn't it, that
she didn't happen to see any
of this murder or whoever
committed it.
What were they doing
all the way out here?
Collecting mushrooms.
Mushrooms? By firelight?
Well, it's certainly not
the sort of place you'd...
happen to be passing.
Inspector.
I was on my way to Standing
and I saw your cars.
~ God rest her soul.
~ It's Sylvia Swann.
Thank you, PC Everett.
I'd like you to leave
my crime scene, please.
That's an interesting key.
~ Sir!>
~ Now!
What's that?
Nothing.
And I thought it was just straws
you grasped at Father,
~ not sticks!
~ This is no stick.
I know a young parishioner
who'd say it's
the beginnings of a
rather fine catapult.
Over here!>
Well, that's curious.
Is that blood?
Sergeant!
Yes, sir.
Send a sample of this to
the laboratory in Oxford.
I thought Mrs Godden said the first
she knew of Miss Swann's injury
was when she heard
her scream over there.
~ She did, Sir.
~ Then why is there blood here?
More importantly, why didn't
Mrs Godden mention it?
This story isn't adding up.
Ginnie Godden?
But she and Sylvia were best friends.
Ginnie wouldn't have any
reason to hurt Sylvia.
Would she?
Late, as usual!
Change of plan. We're not
going to the hospital.
But what about the children?
So I have come all this way...
I've just come from
the Standing Stones.
Sylvia Swann was killed
there last night.
What? At the Stones?
~ You don't think...
~ No, I don't.
But you do know the legend -
that one midsummer midnight,
77 stones got up
and walked, converging
on a glade in the wood,
aligning their entrance
to the midsummer moon.
Yes. That is the legend.
Yes, but they say that
on that one night,
they have the power
over life and death.
I've heard of folk praying to
the Stones to save the sick.
Who's to say it only
works that way round?
What if somebody prayed to the
Stones to have Sylvia killed?
Mrs McCarthy...
I know. I know. "Thou shalt not
have strange gods before me."
Whoever it was was entirely human.
Well, if we don't have to be
here, I'd sooner keep away.
This is not a healthy place.
If we were going to get it,
we'd have got it by now.
There are other unsavoury
elements in Standing
besides the polio, Father.
Malcolm!
Leave him be, Father. That
one will never see the light.
Anyway, we haven't got time for this.
We need to talk to Ginnie.
Oh, no.
With modern science, there
are tests we can do.
If it's blood, we'll find out.
All right, it's blood.
But it's not Sylvia's. It's mine.
And, er... how did it get there?
I fell...
and cut myself - I must've
leant on the stone.
So why not say this at
the initial interview?
Because I didn't think
it was important.
Is this really appropriate?
Her son's very sick.
Nurse Shipton, a woman's been killed.
Niceties have to be set to one side.
Ah, Freddie!
Don't worry. We'll pump by hand.
All day, if we have to.
Oh, sweet Lord Jesus.
SHE SOBS
POWER RETURNS
Nurse Shipton, I...
I didn't realise.
He's completely dependent
on the machine.
If it stops, he dies.
Tell Mrs Godden we can do
this down at the station.
I don't intend to distress her son.
It's the news of the murder,
more than anything.
Sylvia sit... Used to sit with
Freddie when Ginnie had to work.
He knew her well, then.
We're creating a timeline
of her last hours.
Did she sit with him yesterday?
Ginnie wouldn't let her come.
Inspector, we'd like
to speak to Mrs Godden.
I thought they were best friends?
Last week, Sylvia was supposed
to be watching Freddie,
but he went off playing with
the neighbours' children.
~ Then they fell ill...
~ That's how he caught the polio.
Ginnie and Sylvia fell out over it.
Badly.
Did you know this?
What were you thinking,
keeping it to yourself?
This is a motive. Mrs Godden...
Why didn't you say
you held Miss Swann
responsible for your son's condition?
Inspector, you're making a mistake.
With the evidence as it
stands, I have no choice.
Ginnie Godden, I am arresting
you on suspicion of the murder
~ of Sylvia Swann.
~ No, you can't do this!
Marjorie will sit with your
boy, every second you're away.
You're not obliged to say anything,
but anything you say will be
taken down in writing and may be
given in evidence.
No-one hurts my staff
and gets away with it.
If you saw anything or anyone,
I'm begging you, come forward.
None of that mumbo jumbo, am I clear?
The only way stones can kill someone
is when somebody's holding them.
Miss Swann was stabbed.
I don't think we can
blame a stone for that.
And the inspector's already
made an arrest. Ginnie Godden.
~ That's nonsense! I'll go talk to him.
~ I'm glad you said that.
I find it hard to believe
that Ginnie's a murderer.
Also, I just came from
the cottage hospital.
Little Mary Harris died this morning.
~ What?
~ Another death. Just this morning.
Make sure the children stop indoors.
I'll let you all get home.
If you have any information
on Sylvia's murder,
go see Walt at the police house.
Oi! I live upstairs.
The lavs are THAT way!
Walt.
~ Sid.
~ Ola!
Fancy meeting you here.
Returning lost property.
What's your excuse?
Who loses a stick?
More to the point, who
blinkin' well returns one?
This is not just a stick.
This is a hazel dowsing rod.
It didn't just fall off a
tree and where I found it...
There ARE no hazel trees.
Out at the Stones.
Where that murder
happened last night?
~ You've heard?
~ Everyone's heard.
Sid? What's all the...
Oh, Father Brown.
I'm here to see Malcolm.
I had no idea he was so popular.
Malcolm's my... teacher.
We're studying physical
energy together.
~ First time I've heard it called that!
~ Ley lines, Sid.
Dowsing. I do believe Sidney
thinks I'm having an affair.
No-one would think that
of you, Lady Felicia.
Quite. And in any case...
Malcolm believes that with
purity comes strength.
His chastity allows him to
commune with Higher Powers.
The Father found Malcolm's
stick out at the Stones.
He could have left it there any time.
Anyone who believes in dowsing
wouldn't let their rod
out of their sight.
I saw him with this
around Kembleford...
late yesterday.
Hang about.
So that means it was dropped
sometime between...
then and this morning, which
means that Malcolm could be...
~ A witness.
~ .. the killer.
Felicia? What...?
Is this what you were
looking for, earlier?
Where did you find it?
At the Stones.
You were there last
night, weren't you?
When Sylvia was killed?
Stupid girl.
Messing with what didn't concern her.
And what exactly was that?
Those stones are powerful.
She should've known better.
'What if Freddie dies?'
If I'm not there with him, he'll
think I've abandoned him.
The Father's working
tirelessly for your release.
If there's anything you can tell
me, no matter how small...
Ginnie.
I've just come back from the meeting.
The whole village knows,
they're all behind you.
You have to do something.
Listen, I'm going to
get you out of here.
I'm still a Standing Bobby,
I've got influence.
It's just wrong. Why
did Sylvia have to die?
Hush, now.
At this rate, you're going
to make yourself sick.
Now, Marjorie's going
to take care of Freddie.
If you need anything,
you let me know.
I can reach you at any time.
I want to see Freddie.
Marjorie will be with him every
second of the day and night.
Oh, now that PC Everett
is here, I'll be off.
But if there's anything
else that I can do...
Yes. Mrs McCarthy, wait.
Would you go and sit
with my son, please?
Well, PC Everett said Nurse
Marjorie will be with him.
Marjorie's not Catholic.
She doesn't understand last rites.
I want someone there from
the church, just in case.
Well, I am very busy, you know.
But I suppose Lady Felicia
has time on her hands,
so I will make sure that
one or other of us
is with him at all times.
Thank you.
Where did you find it?
I was dowsing near the Stones.
It's the most powerful
time of the year.
I was searching for strength
and it lead me to... that.
And?
And then I heard the police bells,
and I realised it was time I left.
Must've dropped the rod as I went.
Did you see anybody? Anything?
We're going to hand it in.
They'll hang, draw and quarter him!
Malcolm didn't have to show
us the knife, he chose to.
That is not the mark of a guilty man.
Are your fingerprints on it?
I was wearing gloves.
I'll tell them it was
found at the church.
In return, anything you find,
make sure you bring it to me.
I WILL get to the bottom of this.
You don't believe all
that guff, do you?
I believe in innocent
until proven guilty.
Oddball does not equal murderer...
or they'd have arrested me.
A bloody murder weapon
present at the scene.
Admittedly no motive, apart
from being a nutter, but...
I'll keep digging.
Meanwhile, the police
can run their tests.
I suspect that this is
what will interest them.
Just in here, sir.
Father.
So... where's this murder weapon?
I took the liberty
of asking the barmaid
to bring out a kitchen knife.
This is the one she brought,
this is the one left at St Mary's.
Identical.
Apart from the blood, of course.
What's going on?
Father Brown's handing over some
rather interesting evidence.
Sergeant, does the key
in that lock match the one
that was found round Sylvia's neck?
You need a search warrant for that.
I can get one.
See if your home's
any more forthcoming.
I'm expecting to learn that Sylvia
had her own key to your lodgings.
If there's something more to
say, I suggest you tell it now.
Father.
All right, yes.
Sylv and me, we had
something going on.
Sylvia was pregnant.
Presumably she wanted
you to marry her.
How did you feel about that?
I wasn't happy about it.
I didn't kill her.
We'll see what the pros
sols think about that.
No, we won't.
~ I've got an alibi.
~ Really?
Ask anyone.
HE SMIRKS
Anyone?
We're in an epidemic.
Folks are taking shifts at the
cottage hospital, round the clock.
I was there most of last night,
along with half the village.
~ We'll check that out.
~ Be my guest.
Isn't this is where you're
supposed to reveal
that Malcolm had the knife?
You're going to regret
covering for that man.
KNOCK AT DOOR
Come!
The villagers who can corroborate
Mr Gastrell's alibi.
But YOU are on this list.
You were at the hospital last night?
Alf can't be the killer.
Inspector, the
fingerprints on the knife.
Two sets of prints on the handle.
The victim's and Mrs Godden's.
No, wait a minute.
The knife came from the pub,
she worked in the pub.
Of course her prints
could be on the knife.
The blood trail suggests Mrs Godden
lied about where she found the body.
Her prints are on the murder weapon.
And we know she held Miss Swann
responsible for her son's illness.
He's close to death.
Means, motive, opportunity.
Inspector, please, I
need to be with my son.
That won't be possible.
Sergeant, get a search
warrant for her cottage.
We're charging you with murder.
Apparently I'm supposed
to talk to you.
I don't know why Mrs
McCarthy sent me.
I'd be no help if you did wake up.
Children and I, we're like...
.. a fish with golf clubs.
As Monty will attest.
Give me a thoroughbred any day.
SHE GASPS
Goodness. You gave me a start.
Peepo.
Peep... Oh!
~ Where's Father Brown?
~ I don't know.
I think I know what
happened. To Sylvia.
~ I think it might happen again.
~ What? Why?
Father Brown will understand.
Help me find him for me? Please!
Blast!
Someone's got here before us.
This warrant's not worth
the paper it's printed on.
~ Put it out, cover it up.
~ Yes, sir.
What are you doing?
I have the same question
for you. Burning evidence.
Burning Freddie's things.
This is polio we're dealing with.
Is there a problem, Inspector?
I might've known you'd get
here before us, Father.
Clean clothes.
Ginnie will need them until
you see the error of your ways
and let her go.
The whole village agrees.
Ginnie didn't kill anyone.
We want you to set her free.
I'm with them, sir. Her son's sick.
She's at breaking point.
Did you want something, PC Everett?
The autopsy results for
Sylvia Swann are back.
Maybe it's just as well
you're here, after all.
I asked the coroner to discover
how far her pregnancy was.
What he's told me is
she wasn't pregnant.
What?
CAR HORN BEEPS
Father, hop in.
~ Um...
~ I need to take you somewhere.
It's important. Please.
~ BANGING ON DOOR
~ Hello!
Somebody, listen to me!
I need to make a confession.
Constable, find the Inspector - now.
Not a police confession.
I need Father Brown.
Hello?
I thought you said he was
going to meet us here.
He's gone ahead... to the Stones.
He says to read from page 79.
"Sacrifice and the Stones."
It talks about healing.
It says, "the only way to
save innocent human lives...
".. is to give another
innocent human life."
So someone wanted to save
the village children
from this frightful epidemic
and made Sylvia the sacrifice -
killing the one to save the many.
Except that, by all accounts, no-one
thought Sylvia Swann was innocent.
Maybe not Sylvia.
But definitely her unborn child.
Well, then we need to find out who
else knew about Sylvia's pregnancy.
Because whoever it is...
is going to try again.
Father, you're needed
at the station. M'Lady.
Thank God, Father.
I see. I see.
Mrs Morris' what?
Oh, Mrs Morris' dog!
I'll make a note.
Yeah, goodbye.
Father.
I'm here to see Ginnie Godden.
Mrs Godden, I've got
the Father here...
Listen, Alf. If my girlfriend
got herself pregnant...
.. I can think of a couple of people
I might want to get on the blower.
I might have mentioned
it to Nurse Shipton
to see if she knew anyone who might...
help with the situation.
~ But she gave me short shrift.
~ Anyone else?
That oddball, the herbalist.
I thought he might know some plants
that could solve our problem.
Though why he would, when
he takes great pleasure
in telling the world he's
pure as the driven...
You told Malcolm Sylvia was pregnant?
PHONE RINGS
Knife and Cleaver.
Father Brown, for you.
Felicia speaking.
Oh, no.
No.
~ Ginnie Godden's in hospital.
~ What?!
Attempted suicide.
She tried to hang herself.
But why?
Guilty conscience. Maybe she
did kill Sylvia after all.
Who knows? It's the boy I
feel sorry for. Poor lad.
~ What's going to happen to him now?
~ Father, listen...
Malcolm knew about
Sylvia's pregnancy.
What if I was wrong?
If it was him all along
deliberately trying to mislead us.
What if he came to the hospital,
not trying to find me
but looking for another
innocent sacrifice?
'It's getting dark soon.'
If anything will be happening,
it'll be happening at midnight.
I wonder if you could send Sid
to meet me at the police station,
we'll go straight to the Stones.
Then, perhaps, you go
to the cottage hospital
and make sure the children
are safe. Goodbye.
PHONE RINGS
~ That's 10. ~ Johnny?
~ 11. ~ Charlie?
~ 12.
~ And Freddie is, 13. We're one short.
~ What?
PHONE CONTINUES RINGING
But that's not Freddie.
Then where is he?
Well, I... He was there.
Oh, no. Please, no!
~ So what's the plan?
~ No idea.
~ Brilliant.
~ Tell me everything. When
was the last time he...?
~ Sh!
(When was the last time he was seen?)
Ah, so you didn't get our message.
Of course we did. That's
why we're here.
No, the second message.
Inspector...
It turns out his breathing
improved so much
they took him off the iron lung.
Well, they needed it
for another child.
You didn't think to ascertain
this before you called us?
I'm sorry, Inspector
- we really thought...
Time was of the essence.
Stand down, men. Go
home to your families.
It's about time we called it a day.
Well, what about Father Brown?
He's out in the back of beyond
in the middle of the night.
It'll give him time to reflect
on the repercussions
of his wild accusations.
My bicycle's outside,
I'll go and find him.
We don't need any more accidents.
Unless there are any more
innocents you need me to save?
GROUP: Fowles in the frith,
The fishes in the flood,
And I mon wax wood...
How many of them are there?!
The prospect of saving
all the village's children
is very promising.
Yeah, but to kill
a kid to save a kid?
That doesn't make any sense.
Can you make out which one's Malcolm?
Yes, and they are not
sacrificing a child.
Right - so what're we going to do?
Two of us against all of them?
Well, I have asked
Sergeant Goodfellow
to alert Inspector Sullivan.
Yeah, but if he was coming,
he'd be here by now.
You go in the car and get some help.
What about you?
I'll think of something
PHONE RINGS
Kembleford 769.
Yes. Yes, he does house calls,
but you'll need to
call the presbytery.
Let me get this straight,
he's not answering the telephone?
"I will fear no evils,
for thou art with me.
"Thy rod and thy staff,
have comforted me."
The Police. Thank you.
GROUP CONTINUE RITUAL
(Walt!
(No...)
Silence!
Midnight approaches.
GROUP: Much sorwe I walke with.
The Solstice begins.
Much sorwe I walke with.
Is the knife sharpened?
Is the knife-bearer ready?
(We need you to be ready.)
Are you SURE, this time?
It didn't work before.
Because that was the wrong sacrifice.
This is perfect.
~ And what if...?
~ What if we do nothing?
How many more children have to die?
You told me yourself, you couldn't
bear another child dying young
~ or living maimed!
~ I can't.
Then you know what you have to do.
This is the last death
you need to see.
Everything is in alignment.
It was meant to be.
We're going to be
successful this time.
Word of warning. The priest's about.
Just the priest?
HE CHUCKLES
I think we can handle him.
Is the knife-bearer ready?
She is.
Midnight... begin!
No!
CHUCKLING: Father Brown. Alone?
Don't worry, Malcolm.
They won't kill you.
No cavalry?
How are you going to stop us?
By offering myself in his place.
If you want to sacrifice
an innocent...
.. sacrifice me.
Sergeant, you have
to call the inspector.
I don't care if you wake him up!
The Father went out to
the Stones tonight and...
Would you just be quiet
for one minute?!
He went out and it looks like
he's never made his way back.
No, he cannot be out on a call!
His pyx bag is here on
the table in front of me.
You said you'd let him free.
Later.
We don't want anyone raising
the alarm before we're finished.
This can't be interrupted.
You think peace and
quiet makes it work?
You were right. We didn't get
a true innocent last time.
This time will be different.
Exactly the same.
Another death...
.. and no lives given in return.
We'll see about that.
Is that how you think it works?
It's what you believe, isn't it?
Jesus sacrificed himself
for our sins.
You preach it every Sunday.
Our Gods are just a
bit more... useful.
If you think you'll
be able to convert us,
you've got the wrong men.
Marjorie...
you had a strong faith.
And then I saw child after child die,
or live maimed.
I prayed and I prayed, but if your
Christian God won't save them,
I want no part of him.
We need to save our children.
That's not quite true of
you, Alf, though, is it?
Convenient - get rid
of a pregnant girlfriend
you were tired of, wasn't it?
And Freddie?
No-one's done anything to Freddie.
Yet.
Mrs McCarthy was very impressed
with Walt's support for Ginnie
when she was in custody...
promising you'd be
with her little boy
"every second of the night and day."
With hindsight, that sounds like
a threat, wouldn't you say?
That's low.
Very low.
Even if he did say all
that, it's just words.
~ And Ginnie.
~ Ginnie did that to herself.
Is that what you think?
I think someone tried to shut her up.
And after tonight,
I think they'll try again.
Ginnie was one of us.
Why would we kill her?
She brought Sylvia here.
But she didn't have the strength
to follow it through.
I won't be like that.
And Sylvia.
Killed for nothing.
And now me.
What if I'm killed
and nothing changes?
And Sid's missing, too.
Hornby had to bring me
over in Monty's car.
What do we do?
Sid!
Call the police.
~ Do you think I haven't tried?
~ And Freddie's safe.
But Malcolm isn't. He's
about to be sacrificed.
~ What?
~ And Father Brown's out there by himself.
~ Well, let's go.
~ OK.
Operator? Kembleford
Police Station, please.
Not losing your bottle, are you?
Gag him.
SLICING
We need blood.
It's on me.
As his lifeblood drains...
with our eyes closed...
we perform our final chant.
Fowles in the frith!
The fishes in the flood!
GROUP: And I mon wax wood,
Much sorwe I walke with...
RITUAL CONTINUES
This is her blood!
She's betrayed us.
Go after him. Shut him up.
What about the sacrifice?
We've run out of time.
This dried-up old spinster
will have to do.
Not far now.
Who's that?
The police! Oh, thank God.
Where's Father Brown?
He's... up ahead.
We caught them off-guard.
~ Lady Felicia, is your car nearby?
~ Just down the track.
Could I borrow it?
I'll go and find him.
~ Oh, of course. Sid, the keys.
~ Stop! Police!
Hey, it's all right, Inspector.
I've broken it up.
Everybody's safe now.
Thank you, PC Everett.
All right, men, stand down.
Father Brown!
He's one of Sylvia's killers.
What?!
~ Quick! Get after him!
~ Yes, sir.
What do you mean, "one of"?
Much sorwe I walke with.
Are you really going to stand
there and watch this?
Is this what it's come to?
Josaphat?
Simon?
Much sorwe I walke with.
Moira?
Katherine?
They've followed you
blindly this far.
They won't follow you over the abyss.
Cowards!
COWARDS!
HE GROANS
No more pointless deaths.
WHISTLE BLOWS
No more.
Malcolm!
Father, I wasn't expecting...
Something from Mrs McCarthy's garden.
(Thank you.)
I thought if you came at all, you'd
be bringing the police with you.
You backed out of Sylvia's sacrifice.
You were prepared to tell all.
It's not your fault
that Walt got to you.
But I agreed to the plan
in the first place.
I lured Sylvia out
there to her death.
I was just so desperate.
Standing was a village
of desperate people.
We're just grateful for the
chance to return to normal.
Not that the publican
or the policeman
will be returning any time soon.
Well, at least the polio's
burnt itself out.
No new cases for the last seven days.
Thanks to the Father.
Nonsense. Nothing to do with me.
If I'd just read on a few
more pages, I'd have known.
The only thing more powerful than
an innocent being sacrificed
is an innocent who is willing to be.
Though I wasn't willing
to die for them...
because not for a minute did I think
that it would have an effect.
So...
Malcolm...
.. I was willing to die for YOU.
Every time I see him,
I can't believe it.
Thank you so much for letting
him stay while he recuperated.
Oh, it's nothing.
That's what the staff
are for, after all.
I'm sure Lady Felicia will be
glad of the peace and quiet.
Precisely what I was thinking.
I was saying to Monty
only last night -
if the past few weeks
have shown me anything,
it's how glad I am that
we never had children.
So... are you ready
to take your son home?
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org